"You may have already tested plenty of investment options: capital market, mutual funds, government investments etc. Investing time and money into business can be troubling, but what about moving entirely into the digital environment? Is it worth it to get a loan in order to invest money into bitcoin? Virtual currency has lately been extraordinarily popular, and it is being used in a lot of sectors as the main payment system. This article is meant to answer the most asked question related to this topic: is it worth to invest into bitcoin? Read the pieces of information below and all your uncertainties will be gone in minutes.\n\nBitcoin (BTC) is a type of electronic currency, also called cryptocurrency, which is developed by people and companies all around the world. What one needs to understand about cryptocurrency is the fact that it has no physical form. The bitcoin network is not controlled by anyone or anything, but the users who are buying or selling.\n\nThe answer is yes, you can lose money while investing into bitcoins. This is the reason why you will have to be very convinced of your winning rate, especially if you get a loan just for this purpose. You can lose money in a very short period of time, keeping in mind that the price of a bitcoin fluctuates terribly from one day to another. The system is not pyramidal, and it relies on your ability to analyze the fluctuations that occur with time. You will have to understand how it works and invest in bitcoin at the most appropriate time. If you are not doing so, you are going to risk a large amount of money. This happens especially when investors rush in making a certain decision.\n\nYes, the price does fluctuate. Investing in bitcoin is risky. The cryptocurrency market is very volatile. One year the bitcoin can cost a few dollars, it can go up to $1000 the next month and drop back to its initial amount a while after. If you are an active type of investor, you can make monthly purchases and sale of bitcoins, which can result in great returns. Don't forget that these investments are taxable, like all other investments out there and any earnings are going to be taxed according to your state affiliation. It depends on the income statement how the profit is going to be calculated."