"Top stories Financial Times: Global dividends reached record levels in 2017, bolstered by strong global economic growth and a revival in US payouts as business confidence returned following political uncertainty in 2016. Financial Times: SoftBank, the Japanese tech-to-financial conglomerate, is seeking to join Swiss Re's board to influence how the reinsurer manages its $161 billion in investments, as talks progress over the acquisition of a large minority stake. Financial Times: Donald Trump has lashed out at the FBI, his national security adviser and Democrats in a defiant response to the US indictments of Russians over election interference, insisting there was no collusion between his campaign and Moscow. The Daily Telegraph: Retail veteran Sir Philip Green should explain how pensioners will be protected in any sale of Arcadia, MPs have warned - and regulators should have the power to stop the deal until savers have had a say. The Times: Carillion's interim chief executive was unable to answer basic questions about its finances after three months in charge, according to shareholders. Financial Times: European stock markets have lost value since the beginning of the year as volatility returned, with one notable exception - Italy; ahead of elections next month, the robust performance of Italian shares has been led in part by bargain hunters buying up heavily discounted bank stocks like UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, while positive economic data has also bolstered sentiment. Financial Times: The Oxfam scandal will deter wealthy donors from giving money to big charities, private bankers and analysts have warned, following calls to improve transparency in the sector. Business and economics The Daily Telegraph: Living standards are set to improve this year, when pay growth takes off and inflation falls - but it is not happening quite yet, economists believe. The Daily Telegraph: Jamie Oliver's restaurants have faced a 28% rise in business rates this year, as the celebrity chef's Barbecoa chain looks set to cease trading this week. The Daily Telegraph: Improved online betting features and some favourable sporting results are likely to help bookmaker William Hill return to profit growth this week. Financial Times: Payments processing companies Worldpay and Visa are at the centre of complaints from cryptocurrency traders after erroneous charges were levied on their accounts. Daily Mail: Lloyds Banking Group and accountants PwC plotted to remove the entrepreneur behind a car auction business as part of a plan to enable the bank to buy a stake in the company, court papers allege. The Times: Iain Conn is preparing to unveil plans to slash costs at British Gas, raising fears of more job losses as he fights to shore up Centrica's dividend. Financial Times: Electric cars will remain more expensive than petrol or diesel cars until the middle of the next decade, one of Nissan's most senior executives has predicted. The Guardian: Calvin Ayre, a gambling and bitcoin multi-millionaire who was once on the run from the US authorities, is building a $100 million five-star resort on Antigua funded by profits from digital currencies. Financial Times: T Rowe Price, the $1 trillion US asset manager, has begun pivoting its European business away from London and towards Luxembourg, as investment companies start to put their Brexit contingency plans into action. Daily Mail: The finance director of Persimmon is planning to follow his boss's lead by donating some of his \u00a382 million bonus to charity. The Times: Shipowners are scrambling to comply with tough new pollution rules that are due to come into effect at the end of next year, according to one of the world's biggest engine manufacturers. The Times: The governor of Latvia's central bank, a member of the European Central Bank's governing council, was arrested and interviewed by anti-corruption police yesterday, prompting calls for him to resign. Share tips, comment and bids : BUY Indivior but SELL The Restaurant Group. Financial Times: Indian and Chinese companies have locked horns over a 25% stake in Bangladesh's main stock exchange, with the proposed investment threatening to descend into a geopolitical clash. The Times (Comment): Questions are piling up for Carillion. The Daily Telegraph (Comment): Our Brexit must be bold and avoid giving in to a limp transition. Financial Times (Comment): How Vladimir Putin mastered the cyber disinformation war."