"Welcome to Lifehacker's weekly round up of all things Bitcoin, altcoin and cryptocurrency. Bitcoin Mania has certainly died down, two months into the year, but there's still plenty of news about regulation, new technology and rival cryptocurrencies to sort through.\n\nHere's the big news in Bitcoin this week.\n\nFirst up, Bitcoin made some solid ground over the last week, cresting at around $11,800USD before falling back under the $10,000USD mark today. Nearly all cryptocurrencies are currently sitting in the red, besides Nano, which used to be known as RaiBlocks. Nano is sitting in the green by 21% as of writing, likely due to the announcement that a Nano Wallet is now in Beta on Google Play. Some good news for Bitcoin is the launch of SegWit on exchanges such as Coinbase and Bitfinex. SegWit, short for Segregated Witness, is a change in the transaction format for Bitcoin that has been implemented in other altcoins and can drive down transaction fees - one of the major stumbling blocks when Bitcoin's price soared at the end of last year. On the flipside - BTC is 'on trial' today in the US. A Bitcoin investor was recently arrested for exchanging Bitcoin for cash in the state and has faced court in San Diego today. It's hard to get a good read on what's what in this case, but much of the BTC community is worried that this is an attack by the US Government to more carefully regulate the cryptocurrency. A Singaporean man by the name of 'Robert' (or Bob, to his mates) has travelled to Australia with no bank or credit cards - only using cryptocurrency to fund his holiday. It seems like the company TravelbyBit made it all possible. Not sure how much truth there is to this one, but an interesting thought - is it currently possible to travel on crypto alone? It feels like there's not enough support in Australia yet. Do you use crypto to buy anything? In my first Bitcoin Hacker, I linked to the excellent Motherboard piece about Jackson Palmer, creator of Dogecoin. Here's another story about Dogecoin's inception, creation and ultimately how a joke became a legitimate cryptocurrency. Are you on board with the Doge? Besides me, your friendly neighbourhood cryptBro, there's not a lot of people you should trust in the space. Here's a complete list:\n\nThe DEFINITIVE List of People You Should Trust in Crypto from CryptoCurrency\n\nPewDiePie takes on the Bitconnect scam and no matter what you feel about Bitconnect and PewDiePie, it's actually great because of how many times you hear the words BITCONNNNNNNNNNEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEECT screamed.\n\nSee you next week, LifeHodlers.\n\nBitcoin Hacker is our weekly roundup of the big news in Bitcoin and cryptocurrency. If there's anything you particularly want to hear about this week, let us know in the comments."