"Long Blockchain, the company formerly known as Long Island Iced Tea, has announced a new CEO and plans to spin off its original iced tea business. But there's a problem: According to company's balance sheets, it has no income or assets related to blockchain or cryptocurrency.\n\nLong Blockchain has been attempting to rebrand itself -- last year the company announced it was diversifying, shifting focus from beverages to blockchain technology -- but investors aren't buying. The company has been issued a second delisting notice from Nasdaq (the first notice being in October of last year before the company changed names) for failing to keep its market cap above $35 million. Shares were down 5% Tuesday at just over three dollars a share, giving the company a current market cap of $27.98 million.\n\nToday, February 20th, the company announced a change in leadership. Shamyl Malik, who previously ran the firm's blockchain efforts, has taken over as CEO, replacing Phillip Thomas:\n\n\"Shamyl has shown great initiative and leadership since joining the team, and his appointment as CEO and our planned spin-off will allow the Company to execute on a clear, focused Blockchain strategy,\" Thomas said in a statement.\n\nIn December the company announced its name change and diversification -- which spurred a near tripling of its share price overnight. The problem is Long Blockchain's financial documents don't back this new direction up: According to its most recently filed balance sheet (from November) Long Blockchain currently owns no blockchain assets.\n\nThat said, the company has recently announced plans to merge with a New Zealand firm called Stater Blockchain Limited, a \"technology company focused on developing and deploying globally scalable blockchain technology solutions in the financial market,\" according to its website. If the buyout goes through, Stater Blockchain would become a subsidiary of Long Blockchain -- meaning the company would actually gain tangible blockchain assets, which would include Stater's in-house currency futures brokerage.\n\nLong Blockchain's pivot hasn't been smooth. The company announced in January that it would spend $4.2 million to buy 1,000 cryptocurrency mining machines. It seemed to be a strange move: Mining high-risk and relatively unexciting compared to doing something like developing a cryptocurrency service or other blockchain-based venture. Less than a week after it's announcement, Long Blockchain abandoned plans to sell stock to finance the purchase -- by the end of the month it had abandoned the mining proposal entirely."