"Get Trading Recommendations and Read Analysis on Hacked.com for just $39 per month.\n\nThis is a submitted sponsored story. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the content below.\n\nVoice is the interface of the near future, allowing us to interact with our cars, homes, offices, and soon integrating into every aspect of our lives. Blockchain technology will be the framework on which a variety of platforms operate, providing open-source security and frictionless payment platforms. The True Reply platform has combined the decentralized, secure and trust-less framework of blockchain with an intelligent, voice-based survey platform to create an ecosystem that benefits both consumer and brand, practitioner and participant.\n\nTrue Reply is an automated, voice-based surveying platform with the ability to launch incentivized surveys across any telephone or Amazon Alexa-powered device. They have the first and only platform to be approved by Amazon for conducting incentivized surveys across the Alexa ecosystem and the first-ever platform to make it possible to earn crypto across the entire Amazon Alexa community. They have created a new ecosystem that integrates voice technology with blockchain in a way that maximizes the value proposition for participants and practitioners in consumer market research, healthcare studies, and so much more.\n\nIn November of 2017, Amazon approved the True Reply skill to collect consumer feedback via Alexa-powered devices, exposing the True Reply platform to more than 36 million households. Anyone with an Amazon Echo or similar device can earn rewards by taking surveys at their own convenience just by using their voice.\n\nWhile earnings on the True Reply platform can be cashed out via PayPal, the addition of a blockchain-based digital currency brings the opportunity to eliminate fees and streamline transactions on the platform. The ability to earn the True Reply platform's TrueCoin token helps to bring cryptocurrency mainstream by removing risks associated with buying cryptocurrency since users are now able to earn the token simply by participating via any telephone or any Amazon Alexa-powered device.\n\nAny brand can already use True Reply to create incentivized surveys and collect consumer data across the Amazon Alexa community or by deploying a toll-free phone number to access their survey via social networks, websites or any other means of publication.\n\nAn example of the power of voice-based interface was on display at last month's CES 2018 conference in Las Vegas, where Ford and Toyota demonstrated Alexa integrations in their vehicles. Motorists will soon be earning rewards using Alexa via True Reply while they're stuck in traffic or running errands.\n\nTrue Reply surveys are stored in a centralized database that provides real-time access to audio recordings, transcribed and indexed text, dynamic keyword rankings, filters and more. The platform provides context-based analysis as well as data visualizations and reporting features. Data is securely stored in the cloud, eliminating the need for server hardware.\n\nThe implications for market research are staggering. All True Reply survey responses can be listened to individually, allowing researchers to drill down into specific responses and deepen their understanding of how people think about a product or service. The market for the platform will rapidly surpass the current $16 billion market research industry as the technology for analyzing voice audio becomes more intelligent.\n\nTo avoid issues often suffered by the ERC20 standard, True Reply utilizes the more reliable ERC23 standard for its TrueCoin token, which provides access to its platform. Brands will soon use True Coin to facilitate incentivized consumer research surveys.\n\nTrueCoin tokens held in reserve will begin exchange listing following completion of the main token sale on April 1, 2018. Users, however, will not have to wait for the UTO to start earning TrueCoin. Prior to the exchange listings, the tokens will be available through participation in the UTO or through incentivized surveys via the True Reply platform and Alexa-powered devices.\n\nThe UTO launches on March 1 at a token price of 1 Ethereum per 10,000 tokens. Pre-registration is open now and registration is required to participate in the sale.\n\nThere will be three caps: the \"lite cap\" of $500,000, to be equally split between bounties, marketing and founders' salaries; a \"soft cap\" of $5 million (35% for bounties/marketing, 35% for development, 20% for facilities, 10% for founders' salaries); and a \"hard cap\" of $20 million (50% for bounties/marketing, 40% for development, 5% for facilities and 5% for founders salaries.)\n\nEvery UTO participant will receive a True Reply platform account and will be able to create or participate in available incentivized surveys after the UTO is completed."