"Cryptocurrencies especially Bitcoins are leading a new revolution worldwide currently. The technology on which these virtual currencies are based - Blockchain - has brought about change in every sphere of an economy - right from bank payments to security.\n\nCryptocurrencies especially Bitcoins are leading a new revolution worldwide currently. The technology on which these virtual currencies are based - Blockchain - has brought about change in every sphere of an economy - right from bank payments to security. And, much more is in store, the experts say. However, what has raised interest is the way startups and to some extent established companies related to cryptocurrencies are raising money using the virtual currencies. The initial coin offering or ICO finance is helping these firm to fulfill their financial endeavors.\n\nWhat is an ICO\n\nJust on the same lines as initial public offering (IPO) of stocks, an initial coin offering is an unique way adopted by cryptocurrency startups and other manufacturing firms to raise money from the market. The companies which adopt this route fund their enterprises by selling their own cryptocurrency, often accepting payment in other forms of cryptocurrency (mostly Bitcoin or Ethereum). Unlike IPOs, ICOs don't involve any investment bank or underwriters and rarely any equity or voting rights are offered to the investors here. However, there is a very minimal regulatory oversight in such cases as norms regarding cryptocurrency are still in infancy stages all across the world. As per popular American business magazine Forbes, these types of offerings raised more than $4 billion in 2017.\n\nICO working\n\nThe first step during the launch of a typical ICO is an issuance of a white paper that details the technicalities, project plans and budget goals for a project, and may also include a brief discussion on how the coins or tokens will be distributed among the interested investors. In many cases, ICOs fix the number of coins to be offered before sale. Generally, those who buy first are mostly given preferential terms, paying a lower price per coin. But, prices can fluctuate. Some offerings have a specific fundraising goal, and they keep the price fixed throughout the period of offering.\n\nWorldwide, various ICOs have been launched in the last some years with much success by the crypto-firms to raise finances to meet their financial endeavors. However, this route of raising money is still in a premature stage, and it will take time to mature and evolve into a full fledged mechanism to raise money just like IPOs."